[sgd] fp16 (apex) and scheduler support + move examples page (#7061)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/raysgd/raysgd_pytorch.rst

RaySGD Pytorch
==============

.. image:: raysgd-pytorch.svg
    :align: center

> The RaySGD ``PyTorchTrainer`` simplifies distributed model training for PyTorch. The ``PyTorchTrainer`` is a wrapper around ``torch.distributed.launch`` with a Python API to easily incorporate distributed training into a larger Python application, as opposed to needing to execute training outside of Python.

Reviewer: What exactly does "execute training outside of python" mean? This motivation could be stronger if it was a bit more concrete (e.g., "without needing to wrap your training code in bash scripts).

Author: ```suggestion
The RaySGD ``PyTorchTrainer`` simplifies distributed model training for PyTorch. The ``PyTorchTrainer`` is a wrapper around ``torch.distributed.launch`` with a Python API to easily incorporate distributed training into a larger Python application, as opposed to needing to wrap your training code in bash scripts.
```

Under the hood, ``PytorchTrainer`` will create *replicas* of your model (controlled by ``num_replicas``), each of which is managed by a Ray actor.

.. image:: raysgd-actors.svg
    :align: center

For end to end examples leveraging RaySGD PyTorchTrainer, jump to :ref:`raysgd-pytorch-examples`.

Setting up training
-------------------

.. tip:: We need your feedback! RaySGD is currently early in its development, and we're hoping to get feedback from people using or considering it. We'd love `to get in touch <https://forms.gle/26EMwdahdgm7Lscy9>`_!

> The ``PyTorchTrainer`` can be constructed with functions that wrap components of the training script. Specifically, it needs constructors for the Model, Data, Optimizer, Loss, and ``lr_scheduler`` to create replicated copies across different devices and machines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``PyTorchTrainer`` can be constructed with functions that wrap components of the training script. Specifically, it requires constructors for the Model, Data, Optimizer, Loss, and ``lr_scheduler`` to create replicated copies across different devices and machines.
```

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/doc_code/raysgd_torch_signatures.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: __torch_optimizer_start__
   :end-before: __torch_optimizer_end__

Data Creator
~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is the signature needed for ``PyTorchTrainer(data_creator=...)``.

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/doc_code/raysgd_torch_signatures.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: __torch_data_start__
   :end-before: __torch_data_end__

Loss Creator
~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is the signature needed for ``PyTorchTrainer(loss_creator=...)``.

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/doc_code/raysgd_torch_signatures.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: __torch_loss_start__
   :end-before: __torch_loss_end__

Scheduler Creator
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Optionally, you can provide a creator function for the learning rate scheduler. This is the signature needed
for ``PyTorchTrainer(scheduler_creator=...)``.

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/doc_code/raysgd_torch_signatures.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: __torch_scheduler_start__
   :end-before: __torch_scheduler_end__

.. _starting-pytorch-trainer:

Putting things together
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Before instantiating the trainer, you'll have to start or connect to a Ray cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before instantiating the trainer, first start or connect to a Ray cluster:
```

RaySGD Pytorch
==============

> 

Author: (moved to subsections where API is actually more experimental)

Shutting down training
----------------------

After training, you may want to reappropriate the Ray cluster. To release Ray resources obtained by the Trainer:

.. code-block:: python

    trainer.shutdown()

> .. note:: Be sure to call ``trainer.save()`` or ``trainer.get_model()`` before shutting down.

Reviewer: Maybe just put this in the code block to make sure people don't miss it?

Author: Think the way it is right now (in a highlighted block of text), it'll be OK because there is a specific section on saving/getting the model.

Initialization Functions
------------------------

> .. warning:: This is still an experimental API and is subject to change in the near future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. warning:: This is still an experimental API and is subject to change without warning.
```

Reviewer: unless it isn't

.. code-block::

    trainer.train()

>     model = trainer.get_model()  # will return multiple models if the model_creator does so.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    model = trainer.get_model()  # will return multiple models if the model_creator does so.
```
```suggestion
    model = trainer.get_model()  # Returns multiple models if the model_creator does.
```

Mixed Precision (FP16) Training
-------------------------------

> You can enable mixed precision training for PyTorch by the ``use_fp16`` flag. This automatically converts the model(s) and optimizer(s) to train using mixed-precision. This requires NVIDIA ``Apex``, which can be installed from `the NVIDIA/Apex repository <https://github.com/NVIDIA/apex#quick-start>`_:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can enable mixed precision training for PyTorch with the ``use_fp16`` flag. This automatically converts the model(s) and optimizer(s) to train using mixed-precision. This requires NVIDIA ``Apex``, which can be installed from `the NVIDIA/Apex repository <https://github.com/NVIDIA/apex#quick-start>`_:
```

.. code-block::
    :emphasize-lines: 7

    trainer = PyTorchTrainer(
        model_creator,
        data_creator,
        optimizer_creator,
        loss_creator=nn.MSELoss,
        num_replicas=4,
        use_fp16=True
    )

``Apex`` is a Pytorch extension with NVIDIA-maintained utilities to streamline mixed precision and distributed training. When ``use_fp16=True``,
you should not manually cast your model or data to ``.half()``. The flag informs the Trainer to call ``amp.initialize`` on the created models and optimizers and optimize using the scaled loss: ``amp.scale_loss(loss, optimizer)``.

> To specify particular parameters for ``amp.initialize``, you can use the ``apex_args`` field for the PyTorchTrainer constructor:

Reviewer 2: Should there be a link/explanation of what to pass in for apex_args? Maybe we can add a link to this: https://nvidia.github.io/apex/amp.html#module-apex.amp

.. code-block::

    trainer.train()
    model = trainer.get_model()  # will return multiple models if the model_creator does so.

Mixed Precision (FP16) Training
-------------------------------

You can enable mixed precision training for PyTorch by the ``use_fp16`` flag. This automatically converts the model(s) and optimizer(s) to train using mixed-precision. This requires NVIDIA ``Apex``, which can be installed from `the NVIDIA/Apex repository <https://github.com/NVIDIA/apex#quick-start>`_:

.. code-block::
    :emphasize-lines: 7

    trainer = PyTorchTrainer(
        model_creator,
        data_creator,
        optimizer_creator,
        loss_creator=nn.MSELoss,
        num_replicas=4,
        use_fp16=True
    )

> ``Apex`` is a Pytorch extension with NVIDIA-maintained utilities to streamline mixed precision and distributed training. When using ``use_fp16``, you should not manually cast their model or data to .half(). The flag informs the Trainer to call ``amp.initialize`` on the provided models and optimizers underneath the hood, along with using the scaled loss: ``amp.scale_loss(loss, optimizer)``.

Author: edit

.. code-block:: bash

    ray up CLUSTER.yaml
    ray submit train.py --args="--address='auto'"

> Then, within ``train.py`` you'll be able to scale up the number of workers seamlessly across multiple nodes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, within ``train.py`` you can scale up the number of workers seamlessly across multiple nodes:
```

Advanced: Hyperparameter Tuning
-------------------------------

> .. warning:: This is still an experimental API and is subject to change in the near future.

Reviewer: ditto

Author: ```suggestion
.. warning:: This is still an experimental API and is subject to change without warning.
```

Custom Training and Validation Functions
----------------------------------------

.. warning:: This is still an experimental API and is subject to change in the near future.

``PyTorchTrainer`` allows you to run a custom training and validation step in parallel on each worker, providing a flexibility similar to using PyTorch natively. This is done via the ``train_function`` and ``validation_function`` parameters.

Note that this is needed if the model creator returns multiple models, optimizers, or schedulers.

.. code-block:: python

>     # An example custom training function.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: remove newline?

Reviewer: also consider removing the comment, doesn't add much on top of the name of the section

Author: done

        }

    def custom_validate(config, model, val_iterator, criterion, scheduler=None):
        """Runs one standard validation pass over the val_iterator.

        Args:
            config: (dict): A user configuration provided into the Trainer
                constructor.
            model: The model(s) as created by the model_creator.
            train_iterator: An iterator created from the DataLoader which
                wraps the provided Dataset.
            criterion: The loss object created by the loss_creator.
            scheduler (optional): The torch.optim.lr_scheduler object(s)
                as created by the scheduler_creator.

        Returns:
            A dict of metrics from the evaluation.
        """
        ...

>         return {...}

Reviewer: Consider adding some dummy common values here

Author: ```suggestion
        return {"validation_accuracy": 0.5}
```

    trainer = PyTorchTrainer(
        model_creator,
        data_creator,
        optimizer_creator,
        nn.BCELoss,
        train_function=train,
        validation_function=custom_validate,
        ...
    )

Feature Requests
----------------

Have features that you'd really like to see in RaySGD? Feel free to `open an issue <https://github.com/ray-project/ray>`_.

.. _raysgd-pytorch-examples:

PyTorchTrainer Examples
-----------------------

Here are some examples of using RaySGD for training PyTorch models. If you'd like

> to contribute an example, feel free to create a `pull request here <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/>`_.

Reviewer 2: Link broken for me, try this? https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/new/master

Author: Ah, unfortunately it probably makes more sense to point them to the contributions page - just pointing them to repo for now

```suggestion
to contribute an example, feel free to create a `pull request here <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/>`_.
```
